+++
title = "Hospitalizations reduce health care utilization of household members"
date = "2022-08-18"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.

authors = ["Savannah Bergquist", "**Mathijs De Vaan**"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Health Services Research"
#publication_short = "ISBI"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.

# abstract = "We propose a generalized focal loss function based on the Tversky index to address the issue of data imbalance in medical image segmentation. Compared to the commonly used Dice loss, our loss function achieves a better trade off between precision and recall when training on small structures such as lesions. To evaluate our loss function, we improve the attention U-Net model by incorporating an image pyramid to preserve contextual features. We experiment on the BUS 2017 dataset and ISIC 2018 dataset where lesions occupy 4.84% and 21.4% of the images area and improve segmentation accuracy when compared to the standard U-Net by 25.7% and 3.6%, respectively."

abstract = "This paper examines whether the financial burden of hospitalizations affects the health care utilization of household members of the admitted patient. We utilized health care claims data from the Massachusetts All-Payer Claims Database (APCD), 2010 to 2015, to identify emergency hospitalizations of patients on family insurance plans and the health care utilization of the family members on those plans. We used an event-study analysis to compare health care spending and utilization of family members of a hospitalized individual and family members of an individual who was hospitalized one year later. We examine whether such hospitalizations were associated with changes in medical spending, the frequency of ambulatory office visits, other ambulatory care, and preventive care. The analyses include household members of patients with an emergency admission and a length of stay between 5 and 90 days. The results suggest that unexpected hospital admissions reduce household members’ health care spending and utilization by more than 6.4% (95% confidence interval [CI]: -8.2%, -4.5%) on average in the year following the hospitalization. Household members had fewer ambulatory visits with primary care physicians (PCPs), fewer referrals to specialists, and reduced utilization of other ambulatory care, including high-value preventive services. These changes were observed for both children and adults and were exacerbated if members of the household had previously been on Medicaid. The reduction in utilization was less pronounced when the admitted patient and household member shared the same PCP and when their health insurance plan had a family deductible. Compared with families without a hospitalized family member, family members of hospitalized individuals reduced their medical spending and utilization, including a substantial reduction in the use of preventive care. This study highlights the challenges of providing continuity in care when families face financial hardship."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
#image_preview = "static/img/ftl.png"

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/1475-6773.14050"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/1475-6773.14050"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#[[url_custom]]
#name = "Journal"
#url = "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10584-014-1174-4"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false
  
# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "ftl.png"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
