+++
title = "Social Learning in the COVID-19 Pandemic: Community Establishments' Closure Decisions Follow Those of Nearby Chain Establishments"
date = "2020-07-30"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.

authors = ["**Mathijs de Vaan**", "Saqib Mumtaz", "Abhishek Nagaraj", "Sameer Srivastava"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Management Science"
#publication_short = "ISBI"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.

#abstract = "We propose a generalized focal loss function based on the Tversky index to address the issue of data imbalance in medical image segmentation. Compared to the commonly used Dice loss, our loss function achieves a better trade off between precision and recall when training on small structures such as lesions. To evaluate our loss function, we improve the attention U-Net model by incorporating an image pyramid to preserve contextual features. We experiment on the BUS 2017 dataset and ISIC 2018 dataset where lesions occupy 4.84% and 21.4% of the images area and improve segmentation accuracy when compared to the standard U-Net by 25.7% and 3.6%, respectively."

abstract = "As conveners that bring various stakeholders into the same physical space, firms can powerfully influence the course of pandemics such as COVID-19. Even when operating under government orders and health guidelines, firms have considerable discretion to keep their establishments open or closed during a pandemic. We examine the role of social learning in the exercise of this discretion at the establishment level. In particular, we evaluate how the closure decisions of chain establishments, which are associated with national brands, affect those of proximate, same-industry community establishments, which are independently owned or managed. We conduct these analyses using cellphone location tracking data on daily visits to 230,403 U.S.-based community establishments that are co-located with chain establishments affiliated with 319 national brands. We disentangle the effects of social learning from confounding factors by using an instrumental variables strategy that relies on local variation in community establishment's exposure to closure decisions made by brands at the national level. Our results suggest that closing decisions of community establishments are affected by the decisions made by chain establishments: a community establishment is 3.5% more likely to be open on a given day if the proportion of nearby open chain establishments increases by one standard deviation."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
#image_preview = "static/img/ftl.png"

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/mnsc.2021.4033"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://osf.io/5f8ev/"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#[[url_custom]]
#name = "Journal"
#url = "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10584-014-1174-4"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false
  
# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "ftl.png"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
