+++
title = "Improving Data Access Democratizes and Diversifies Science"
date = "2020-07-29"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.

authors = ["Abhishek Nagaraj", "Esther Shears", "**Mathijs de Vaan**"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences"
#publication_short = "ISBI"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.

#abstract = "We propose a generalized focal loss function based on the Tversky index to address the issue of data imbalance in medical image segmentation. Compared to the commonly used Dice loss, our loss function achieves a better trade off between precision and recall when training on small structures such as lesions. To evaluate our loss function, we improve the attention U-Net model by incorporating an image pyramid to preserve contextual features. We experiment on the BUS 2017 dataset and ISIC 2018 dataset where lesions occupy 4.84% and 21.4% of the images area and improve segmentation accuracy when compared to the standard U-Net by 25.7% and 3.6%, respectively."

abstract = "The foundation of the scientific method rests on access to data and yet such access is often restricted or costly. We investigate how improved data access shifts the quantity, quality, and the diversity of scientific research. We examine the impact of reductions in cost and sharing restrictions for satellite imagery data from NASA's Landsat program (the longest record of remote-sensing observations of the earth) on academic science using a sample of about 24,000 Landsat publications by over 34,000 authors matched to almost 3,000 unique study locations. Analyses show that improved access had a substantial and positive effect on the quantity and quality of Landsat-enabled science. Improved data access also democratizes science by disproportionately helping scientists from the developing world and lower-ranked institutions to publish using Landsat data. This democratization in turn increases the geographic and topical diversity of Landsat-enabled research. Scientists who start using Landsat data after access is improved tend to focus on previously understudied regions close to their home location and introduce novel research topics. These findings suggest that policies that improve access to valuable scientific data may promote scientific progress, reduce inequality among scientists and increase the diversity of scientific research."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
#image_preview = "static/img/ftl.png"

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.pnas.org/content/early/2020/09/02/2001682117"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = "https://osf.io/mw34x/"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
#[[url_custom]]
#name = "Journal"
#url = "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10584-014-1174-4"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false
  
# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "ftl.png"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
